Each of the Bitcoin Core networks, so the mainnet,
the testnet, and the regnet can be accessed using the Bitcoin Core client.
Switching between each of these environments will allow you to access the features of
each network and more easily setup development environments for your Bitcoin application.
Even if you don't plan on switching back and forth between networks,
you can use this method I'm going to show you to
change the default network of the Bitcoin application.
This may be helpful in the case that you don't want to stick to the mainnet
and would prefer to only ever use the testnet or the regnet.
Now, in this video, we'll quickly overview how to
switch between each of these networks using the Bitcoin Core client.
To start, let's go into the main network.
So, if you actually don't want to go into the main network,
wait for a moment until I start talking about the testnet and then follow along.
Now to go to the main network,
navigate to your Bitcoin core application and open it up.
If you're opening this application for the first time,
or haven't opened it in a while,
you'll notice the client might take some time to sink to the blockchain.
The default network is the mainnet.
So, once this application opens,
you'll be on the main network.
Next, we'll switch to the test network.
Now there are two ways to kick off the testnet with the Bitcoin Core client.
The first option is to run the client with a flag used to set the testnet.
The second option, which is preferred,
is to use a Bitcoin configuration file.
To use the Bitcoin configuration file,
you need to create this file inside your Bitcoin core directory.
Once created, you can use this file to
help provide directions to the Bitcoin Core application.
This file will have a few purposes as we move forward.
But for now, it helps us get set up specifically to help change networks.
To make this file, open up a text editor such as Visual Studio or Sublime,
but any simple text editor will do.
In this file, type testnet=1.
This tells the Bitcoin Core client to load
the application into the test network rather than into the main network.
Name this file Bitcoin core.conf so
C-O-N-F and save this file inside your Bitcoin core directory.
All right. That's all we have to do.
So this file is read automatically when you start up Bitcoin core.
Since it's read while starting the program,
we'll need to quit our application and restart it.
So, go ahead and restart your application,
or if you haven't opened it just yet you can do that now.
What you'll notice is that while starting up,
the logo changes to green and then in top right,
you'll see that it's marked as testnet.
So, these are indicators that you can use to
see that you've correctly accessed the testnet.
Once logged in, you should see that everything looks pretty much the same as before.
You have access to a wallet overview and can send and receive transactions.
The difference now is that these coins have
no value and you can play around in it as a test environment.
We'll spend a lot of time in this network as we continue development.
But before getting into details,
I'd like to show you how to access the Regnet.
To do this, it's really similar to what we just did before and rather quick.
So, go back to your Bitcoin core.conf file and
remove or comment out with a hashtag where you wrote testnet equals one.
Instead of this, right regnet=1.
Now, save that off and restart the application again and it will load into the regnet.
Again, it's pretty simple but definitely not intuitive if you haven't seen it before.
Finally, to get back to the main net,
you just remove all this information from the Bitcoin Core.conf file.
You can do this by deleting the texts,
commenting it out, or deleting the file completely.
For now, I recommend commenting it out.
It makes it quicker to jump between these networks in the future.
This configuration file will continue to
grow over time as we learn more about its functionality.
Finally, you don't need to actually create this Bitcoin.conf file yourself,
you can do it directly from the wallet interface.
To do this, from the wallet,
navigate to Bitcoin core.
Select "Preferences" and then
choose "Open configuration file" from the bottom left of the pop-up window.
We avoided doing this at first because you will need to first
log into the main net wallet to get access to this feature.
This will start sinking the main net blockchain and take up a lot of space
you may have been trying to avoid by creating this file. All right. So that's a wrap.
That's how you access each of the networks available for the Bitcoin Core client.
When you're done, you can close out the console or stay on and experiment.
We'll continue to learn more about each of
these networks as we use them throughout the program.